# Reconstructing_DNA_with_Graph_structure
DNA Reconstruction method through the Shotgun method and Graphs modelling


This project tries to reconstruct parts of the DNA strand (composed of Adenosine, Thymine, Cytosine and Guanine) with the shotgun method (which can be read more on https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shotgun_sequencing), a process in which the given DNA sequence is broken down into smaller parts and then we try to "piece" these smaller parts with graph modelling, rebuilding something close to the original sequence.

After obtaining these smaller fragments, we build a digraph containing nodes ("vértices") that hold the strings produced by the method described above and add edges to the digraph linking the nodes carrying fragments ending with the last k (where k is a user-defined parameter specified within the main file) letters to the nodes carrying fragments starting with the same first k letters. For instance, if k = 2, there will exist edges linking ACTCGT to GTAAATA, ATAAC to ACATAA, GATAC to GATAC (and the other way around, since we are dealing with a digraph), etc.

Since the shotgun method involves randomness, the final product probably won't be the same as the original DNA sequence. Also, when dealing with ciclical graphs, this problem is NP-hard, so we also need to eliminate the cycles present in our built digraph, which takes away some of the precision.

You can change the parameters to whichever ones desired: in the .txt file "arquivo_da_string" you can change to your preferred DNA sequence consisting of uppercase "A", "T", "C", or "G". In the main.cpp file you can change the value of k and the number of fragments generated by the Shotgun Method in the "qtd_de_fragmentos" variable.

To compile the program run g++ main.cpp graph.cpp -o <name_of_executable> and ./<name_of_executable>.

Dependencies:
gcc version 6.3.0 (MinGW.org GCC-6.3.0-1).

Program ran on AMD Ryzen 7 5800H with Radeon Graphics, with 2,78GB of memory, in a WSL terminal running Ubuntu 22.04.3.


